---
layout: post
title: 'Academia or Industry?'
author: 'akajb'
---

My name is Neesha and I’m a 5th year PhD student. This was my third trip to
Grace Hopper and wow has it grown! The last time I went was in 2009. Back then
(only 4 years ago), the career fair booth was a collection of tables – one
table per sponsor. Now, sponsors have giant booths. Before, while crowded, the
crowd was manageable. Now, there were times where I had serious thoughts that
“there better not be any problems, because a crowd this big can easily cause a
stampede.”

The first time I went, I was halfway through my Master’s and was going because
a large contingent from our department was going. I didn’t know what to expect
and mainly went hoping to have fun, make some new friends, and learn about
grad school and career options. The second time I went, I had a poster and so
I went hoping to maybe talk to a few people about the poster. I had also just
started my PhD, so I was a lot more interested in any talks on the PhD process
(which seemed, and still seems much more scary than a Masters). This time,
there was a big group going again, and so while I expected to bond and make
some new friends, I wasn’t really sure what I wanted to actually get out of
the conference.

![](https://i1.wp.com/webdocs.cs.ualberta.ca/~neesha/croppedada.jpg)

Figure 1 – Ada’s Team at our booth.

In the end, I did bond with and make a lot of new friends (see Figure 1).
However, I also ended up doing a lot more contemplating about my future than I
expected to do. I wandered the career fair a couple of times looking for swag
(see Figure 2), and ended up in a couple of conversations about my own future
that I didn’t expect. I also attended a few sessions that related to looking
for an academic job.

![](https://i1.wp.com/webdocs.cs.ualberta.ca/~neesha/IMG_0001.jpg)

Figure 2 – Android army saluting Grace Hopper

I’m completely undecided as to what I want to do when I finish. And I know I
need to start making some more plans. I probably have about a year, plus or
minus a couple of months left for my degree. But I continue to flip back and
forth between industry and academia – usually depends on what new news there
is about the next terrible cut universities are getting or how few academic
jobs there are.

While I’m not anymore decided than I was _before_ I went to Grace Hopper, I do
feel like there are more types of potential industry jobs out there than I was
originally considering. I talked with
[ThoughtWorks](http://www.thoughtworks.com/) and really liked their goal of
looking for employees who can learn and spending about 20% of their time on
_pro bono_ work. I talked with [EA](http://www.ea.com/) and walked away with
contact information and “to get in touch when I’m about 6 months from
graduating.” The recruiter there thought, with my research, there were some
definite possibilities as to job opportunities (and I had never actually
really considered working for a games company before, even though that’s my
research area).

I also learned a lot about Liberal Arts colleges in the states. And while I’m
not sure if I want to leave Canada, the talks did make me start thinking about
what _kind_ of academic job I’d like, should I get one. Do I want to focus on
teaching or research or a more even split? Do I want to aim for a research
university or a college? If I’m looking at a college, or even a new university
that doesn’t currently have grad students, what would I continue to research
and how could I potentially involve undergrads in it? Or even grads?

So many things to think about. But, I know, whether I end up in academia or
industry, I hope to attend Grace Hopper again in the future.


