---
layout: post
title: 'GoDaddy: Redemption and Branding'
author: 'anna.koop'
---

Sooooo, as the internet is aware, [notorious](http://gizmodo.com/5870559/as-
if-you-needed-another-reason-to-hate-fcking-godaddy "Article about Bob
Parson's support of SOPA ") “[misogyny
sells](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Go_Daddy's_advertising "Geek
Feminism Wiki on Go Daddy Advertising")” company [Go Daddy was a platinum
sponsor](https://storify.com/AnitaBorg_Org/godaddy-sponsors-grace-hopper-
celebration "Tweets on Go Daddy and Anita Borg partnership") of this year’s
[Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing](http://gracehopper.org/
"Grace Hopper main page").

Go Daddy has a long history of misogynist ad campaigns and a notorious
dismissal of any critiques of said campaigns. It seemed an unlikely
partnership, and caught me completely by surprise because I have been under an
internet rock for a while now. I found it rather problematic, and I found
myself snarling “Freaking Go Daddy?!?” under my breath every time I walked
past their booth as we were setting up our own. Then as we set up, there was
some talk about “didn’t Go Daddy get bought out? Or the other way around?” and
I decided: why not go straight to the source?

So the next time I wandered by the booth, I stopped at the group of four women
unpacking shirts. They seemed approachable. (They were utterly lovely and I
should have written down their names so I could properly discuss with them—if
you read this and you were there, let me know!)  
Anna: marches up, spreads hands in confusion “I have an awkward question.”  
General laughter. Then:  
“Yes.” says one, definitively.  
“New management,” clarifies another.

Relief. We talk a while longer about the company, about the [new CEO Blake
Irving](https://gigaom.com/2014/01/27/how-godaddy-plans-to-become-a-real-tech-
company-for-real-people/ "Article on Go Daddy's management change"), about how
in his initial presentation to employees he promised to [change the company’s
external presence](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/09/05/business/media/godaddy-
steps-away-from-the-jiggle.html?_r=0 "NY Times article about Go Daddy
advertising shift") to reflect the respect he/the company has for women in
technology, to show the women who work there the same respect externally they
deserve, to let the public face of the company align with internal policies
(it was apparently a fine environment for female workers internally, something
I’ve heard reiterated a few times). The details escape me, but there are a lot
of ongoing initiatives, he brought in [Elissa Murphy as
CTO](http://allthingsd.com/20130402/elissa-murphy-one-of-yahoos-top-woman-
tech-execs-heads-to-go-daddy-as-cto/ "Elissa Murphy new CTO article") who is
active in adding to the supportive atmosphere (nice quote by Irving in the
linked article: “Elissa Murphy is more than just a top _woman_ in technology,
she’s a top _person_ at the top of her field. Elissa just plain rocks.”), it’s
been a positive change, etc, etc.

I was satisfied. I understood the relationship now. It wasn’t an empty PR
stunt or a sell-out by the Anita Borg Institute. It was ABI supporting a big
company wanting to make changes. I assured the women there that I would spread
the word (since it had come up a few times, on the [Systers mailing
list](http://anitaborg.org/get-involved/systers/ "Systers page at anitaborg
institute") and among our little group).

But over the week, hearing the cycle repeat—“Can you believe Go Daddy is a
sponsor?” “I know, but they’ve got new management and it sounds like they’re
doing good things.”—over and over and over got me thinking.

It’s very cool and all that the company has internally disavowed past
misogyny, and that they are trying to change perception. But that’s not how
branding works. When your branding has been thoroughly and completely based in
being unrepentantly sexist (I’m sorry, “[edgy and a bit
inappropriate](http://www.bobparsons.me/archive_article.php?entry_id=142
"Press release by Bob Parsons")“), you can’t really just pop up and say “we’re
not going to do that going forward, we’re the good guys now.”

Even if you really do change. Even if, from here on out, you did everything
exactly right, you are still remembered publicly as Freaking Go Daddy:
misogynist, SOPA-supporting, animal-killing.

You want to really grab attention? What about an edgy, fun, irreverent ad
campaign that targeted that past version of Go Daddy itself? Comedy gold! The
reaction could be immense. There’s the warm fuzzies you’ll create in people
who care about improving the atmosphere for women in tech. There’s the plain
straightforward message to (the ever-growing market of) women on the internet:
we’ve got your back. We respect you. There’s the business buzz that all the
“Go Daddy earns Nobel Peace Prize for not being a jerk” and “Why did Go Daddy
cave to the feminazi hivemind” articles will prompt. Sure, there’s going to be
fallout. The true assholes, the ones who liked you **because** of your
unrepentant sexism, are going to be ticked right off. You may even get some
small, concentrated hacking “attacks” by the sewage of the internet.

You want to be edgy and push boundaries? Be overtly feminist in tech.

Imagine the publicity *that* would generate. Imagine the buzz if Go Daddy,
freaking GO DADDY, had a biting, funny, *feminist* ad series in the superbowl.
Have [Gaby Dunn](http://gabydunn.com/ "Gaby Dunn blog") and [Avery
Edison](http://www.averyedison.com/ "Avery Edison") and [Andrew
Ti](http://yoisthisracist.com/ "Yo is this Racist tumblr") write them. Get
[Amanda Palmer](http://amandapalmer.net/ "Amanda Palmer") and [Jessica
Williams](http://msjwilly.tumblr.com/ "Jessica Williams tumblr") to perform in
them. Get [Suey Park](http://sueypark.com/ "Suey Park blog") and [Amanda
Levitt](http://fatbodypolitics.com/ "Amanda Levitt web page") to vet them. Or
let them recommend the writers and actors and vetting. Get a diverse,
critical, plugged-in team to create a self-satire like no company has done
before. And that will scream so loud that all the gritted teeth and snarling
will be replaced with delight: “Can you believe it? GO DADDY!”.

The absolute key to this is: DO NOT ALLOW WHITE MALE MARKETERS AND EXECS TO
MAKE THE CALLS. And don’t assume that as long as a white woman signs off on
it, it must be okay. No matter how well-intentioned, it’s too hard for the in-
group to see its own flaws. Nobody can speak for everyone. And you have to go
all in for it to work, or it’s just another half-assed attempt to get
marginalized groups to throw gratitude money your way. Without a diverse team
behind it, it’s just a mediocre PR stunt. So hire the best and brightest minds
and create a masterpiece.

I can’t imagine a company doing this, actually getting a diverse team of
critical minds and allowing them free reign to mock the company itself. But
what a sight that would be. And then, instead of saying “Oh no, they’re better
now, really,” I could just send a link to this YouTube video of the ad
campaign, or a Storify of the Twitter fallout and say “This is what they’re
about now.”

There’s a pile of great comedians and critics I’m not thinking of, and my
sphere is still rather white-washed and heteronormative, so if you can think
of other awesome candidates for such a venture, leave a link below!


