---
layout: post
title: 'On “Why Empowerment”'
author: 'anna.koop'
---

A twitter link to an NY Mag article on why [“Events for ‘Powerful Women’ Don’t
Empower Anyone”](http://nymag.com/thecut/2014/10/what-good-is-a-powerful-
women-conference.html "NY Mag article on Empowerment Conferences") has caught
my eye, and so I thought I’d answer the question.

First. The Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing is *not* a bunch of
rich, powerful women getting together to congratulate each other on being
rich, powerful women. So it should really not be included in this grouping. It
is an accessible conference for women in technology, getting together to learn
about other women in technology.

Second. GHC is far from perfect. They have made missteps both spectacular and
subtle. But it is extremely important that the conversations it sparks,
personal and international, keep happening. The missteps perhaps aid this the
most, together with the outspoken reaction from the women in tech who care
about making a difference. I absolutely love how Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella
[has responded](http://www.geekwire.com/2014/internal-memo-microsoft-ceo-sets-
new-diversity-plan-humbling-experience/ "Internal Memo: Microsoft CEO Satya
Nadella sets new diversity plan after ‘humbling’ experience") his misstep.
Real progress. Real coverage of the issue (albeit with some shoddy reporting,
and ignoring that Maria Klawe set him straight right on the stage). Real
change.

Third. Getting a group of technical women together to find out they’re not
alone, to ease the [acidity of the tech
pipeline](http://blog.8thlight.com/meagan-waller/2014/06/19/the-pipeline-is-
full-of-acid.html "Acid in the Pipeline---why adding women in is not enough")
they’ve been rah-rahed into, to simply meet and know other inspiring women
doing amazing things in a field we love—this is important. This is the core of
GHC. It is not for talking heads or for endless complaints or empty self-
congratulatory motions. It’s about connecting *us*. And slowly we’re turning
those connections into strength and support and sheer volume to effect
important changes.

I was lucky enough to go to GHC with a group of women from UofA back in 2008,
including Ann Elizabeth. The news flare up following this year’s conference
prompted this post from her, which I am honoured to have her permission to
share. Read the whole thing.

> Beware: Long Comment Ahead  
>  Okay, so some of you may be aware that at one point in my life I was
pursuing a degree in informatics from Dalhousie University. For many reasons I
have never completed that program (some personal, some institutional, and some
just because life doesn’t always go how you planned…) but one of the
highlights of that time in my life were the Grace Hopper Celebrations of Women
in Computing I was lucky enough to attend in 2007 and 2008. I don’t think men
(or women) understand how freeing and inspiring it can be to go somewhere and
finally see that you are not alone. That there are women in tech who are fun
and confident and supportive and have a work-life balance that doesn’t make a
scared university student cringe. It was a revelation and so very important to
my development as a person.

>

> As stated before I am not in tech anymore. I am not even in the workforce at
this point. No one at Dalhousie or at any of the places I did my co-op work
terms have ever followed up on me and asked me why it is that I left, and I
think that is a shame because I could certainly tell them a few things that
might make them understand their part in making me a statistic in female
attrition in computing-related fields. But they didn’t. And why would they?
For every one male “ally” I had in those places there were ten others making
me feel like I was always “behind” or asking the dumb question or never going
to succeed because of my gender. I cried for an hour in relief after the GHC
2008 Impostors Panel, but just knowing that there were other impostor syndrome
sufferers out there didn’t help me learn how to combat it, and not feeling
alone is only half the battle, you have to also have the tools to make being
alone okay when you get back to the real, non-GHC world.

>

> And so it was, I quietly shuffled myself out of the pipeline (cringe) and
into a safe and easy environment where the pay was crap, my talents and
knowledge were under utilized but the gender balance was completely in my
comfort zone. It was soul-crushing in a completely different way than my brief
computer science life had been, but it was more relatable. I could go out for
drinks with friends and complain about my job in a way that made sense and had
the girls around the table raising their glasses in understanding, not the
confusion I got when I had previously turned to them for solace when a
professor talked down to me while raising up the men in the room. Or when a
male co-worker was embarrassed that a silly little girl had figured out and
fixed and issue before he could and, instead of using this opportunity for
knowledge exchange, picked out a random physical attribute of mine, made an
inappropriate joke about it so that the attention was away from the
accomplishment and in doing so, restored the good ole boys geek club and the
delicate balance of the universe.

>

> This isn’t about me anymore. Seriously. I’ve made my decision and it makes
me sad sometimes, but I also know I am never going back. This year TPTB at GHC
decided to host a panel of male tech allies, featuring among them the CEO of
GoDaddy (an industry leader of classy treatment of women in advertising, so I
imagine their corporate culture is just as inclusive and supportive) and other
male People of Import. In theory, great plan, in practice I was incredibly
skeptical. I mean seriously, these are industry leaders, not the rank and
file. People don’t disagree with what they say, employees listen and nod
supportively and then wait until the boss’ back is turned and go right back to
the old behaviours which have been present and accepted in the tech industry
since its advent. I thought a lot of what the panelists said was ridiculous
and pandering and tone deaf and so many other unflattering things… but one of
the things that was mocked heavily online (and by the makers of the amazing
bingo cards that were handed out to audience members by a feminist
organization also skeptical of the panel) were the panelists answers to why
they care, why they are allies. Universally it was because of a female family
member (mother, daughter, sister, whatever) and thinking that they wouldn’t
want them to have to deal with this shit. Everyone wants people in charge to
promote change for the sake of the greater good. They want to hear leaders say
that they support it because women are equal to men and it just makes sense
and this isn’t the 1920s and blah blah blah. No one wants to hear that they
came to this position because they are human and it took the possibility of it
affecting someone close to them to do the right thing. But they *are* human
and with social justice issues it almost always take being personally affected
to decide to take a stand.

>

> I was quiet and coy and reserved and non-committal about my experience as a
woman in technology but like these (misguided but earnest) men I have decided
to change that because of a girl in my life. What if Jocelyn wants to be a
programmer? An analyst? A project manager? Do I scare her with the realities
that I faced? Do I subtly encourage her in a different, easier direction? Of
course not. I already spend hours pouring over studies and articles learning
how to encourage and compliment her in ways that will build her confidence and
not be lip service and she is only five months old! I stay up at night worried
about how I will help her and support her in math and sciences when I feel
like a failure in those subjects myself. I read about girls in STEM and have
huge dreams for her and pray that she has huge dreams for herself. I live in
fear that I am a poor role model because I “gave up” or “washed out” or am
“just a stay at home mom” and “let my husband’s career come first”. Being the
mother of a daughter has awakened all the same insecurities I had as a woman
in tech and amplified them in ways I never thought possible. But it has also
given me something to fight for. I didn’t value myself enough to think that
the fight was worth it, but you damn well better believe that the fight is
worth it to me now. So I want to say thank you to GHC, to the male allies
panelists, to the dissenters and the bingo card creators and everyone who is
at least willing to have the conversation. I want to say thank you to the
women in tech who are amazing and strong and supportive everyday; women like
Kelly Lyons and Eleni Stroulia, Carrie Gates and Kate Patterson, Neesha Desai
and Jacqueline Smith and Kim Beaudin and Stephanie Creaser and so many others
I am friends with but am forgetting. Also thank you to the men in the world
that are always allies for women in technology, like Liam Spencer and Jacob
Slonim and Mike Smit. Change, as always, will be slow, but I know that we can
do it. If only for the women and girls in our lives.


