---
layout: post
title: 'Grace Hopper Disclosure'
author: 'dbatualberta'
---

We know that some of you may have concerns about Ada’s Team sending students
to the upcoming Grace Hopper Celebration. We want to create an open dialogue
about the concerns surrounding sending people to the [Grace Hopper
Celebration](https://ghc.anitab.org/2018-attend/) (GHC) in Houston, Texas:

Many of us are aware of the tense climate in the US and the many ways it
conflicts with the values of Ada’s Team. With the Islamophobic travel ban,
there will be some students that cannot attend the conference.

In addition, there are safety concerns related to the fact that firearms are
easily accessible to those living in the US. We want to emphasize that we
understand that this is a concern for many people and we understand if some
people are not comfortable attending the conference because of this. **We want
to stress that we will be taking every precaution to ensure the safety of
those we send to GHC**.

With all this being said, GHC is the largest computing science conference for
women in the world. It’s an opportunity to network and build friendships with
others that identify with and understand the struggles of being a woman in the
tech industry. It can facilitate not only professional growth, but personal
growth as one can feel empowered and a sense of belonging after attending a
conference like this. We want to be able to provide such an opportunity to
you, and for you to share your experience with those who couldn’t attend. We
want everyone to feel _inspired_.

Finally, a major thing we want to emphasize is that **this is not the only
conference we are offering funding for!** We will be sending people to the
Canadian version of GHC called the **Celebration of Women in Computing (CAN-
CWiC)** in **Halifax, Canada**. So if you feel uncomfortable or unsafe
travelling to the US, **you still have an opportunity to attend a conference
in Canada.**

****

Thank you to everyone for taking the time to read this.


